Dear Employee, 
Welcome to M&S Consulting, we are excited to have you as part of our Company! 
M&S Consulting is committed to quality work and superior Client service in all aspects of our business. We value our Employees and encourage them to make productive suggestions because we want you to succeed in your career. 
You should use this Handbook as a reference as you pursue your career with M&S. The handbook is current as of the date in the title, but may be unilaterally amended by M&S Consulting at any time, with or without notice, and we shall also reserve the right to deviate from the policies herein at our sole discretion. When there is a change in a policy we will update this Handbook as soon as possible. 
This Employee Handbook, inclusive of an Acknowledgement Form, sets forth the general administrative policies, goals, and benefits of M&S Consulting and replaces and supersedes any prior handbook(s). The contents of this Handbook are confidential and are not to be distributed to or shown to anyone else inside or outside the Company. This Handbook remains the property of M&S Consulting, LLC and must be returned upon request. 
Feel free to discuss with us any questions you may have about this Handbook or about your employment with us. 
To your success at M&S Consulting. 
Sincerely, 
Sanu Chadha 
Partner 
1. Company Operations 
M&S Consulting Profile 
Company History 
M&S Consulting (may also be referred to as “Company” or “M&S”) is a premier management and solutions implementation firm. Established in 2002, M&S is a registered Woman Owned Small Disadvantaged Business (WOSDB) headquartered in Morgantown, West Virginia. M&S is HUBZone Certified through the United States Small Business Administration (SBA). M&S has a proven history of consistently delivering successful solutions that support current and future needs for optimization and growth. 
M&S executes its success by utilizing commercial off-the-shelf (COTS) products; innovative custom made products, and developing interfaces to ensure the IT Tools and products utilized yield success for our clients. As a provider of these types of systems, M&S continues to meet the challenges of our Commercial, Public Sector, Non-Profit, and Higher Education clients. 
M&S (which stands for Management and Solutions) was conceived with the vision of creating highly effective teams of elite consultants to deliver strategic process and technology solutions to enterprise organizations across the US. Our commitment to delivery in complex environments and long-term Client success has merged process and technology into innovative solutions, established deep pockets of expertise, and enabled continuous transformation for evolving businesses. We have intentionally cultivated steady growth focused on being approachable and helpful to our dearly valued clients and closely cared-for employees. M&S people simply “care hard”, and this reflects in our work products, our interactions, and our culture.
M&S Co-Founder and Managing Partner, Ashok Aggarwal, currently holds seats on many Client Advisory Boards at Oracle Corporation. Senior M&S team members are found being published online, in trade journals, lecturing at conferences, and authoring books. M&S implements departmental applications, enterprise-wide front-end/back-end systems, and software solutions leveraged by multiple organizations. 
Business Scope 
M&S offers full solution development services focused around Strategy, Management, Process, Technology, and Applications. We provide high quality services for mission-critical objectives to organizations of all sizes. M&S makes all Clients into partners by giving access to our expertise, business network, and areas of innovation. 
M&S provides professional consulting expertise in full lifecycle Information Technology (IT), Business Process Management (BPM), Cloud and Infrastructure Services (CIS), Oracle technologies, Big Data, IoT, Analytics, Artificial Intelligence, Salesforce, and Process/Project Management. In addition, M&S has select partnerships with industry leaders and many software vendors. M&S attracts and cultivates resources to be skilled industry leaders. 
We take on each challenge with one critical mantra: our success is achieved by the success we deliver to our clients. We are results-driven and success-focused, a culture that is carried from our organization to our clients’ organizations. 
Strategy 
M&S engages a Partner or Manager on each engagement to develop an informal dialogue that keeps us close to each Client’s challenges and business initiatives. We also employ issue escalation channels through capability owners within our Company for critical functional and technical challenges so that our Clients can use our breadth and depth of expertise when they need answers fast. 
We also provide formal strategy services around developing Business Process Cultures, Management Methodologies, Process Modeling, Solution Architectures, Innovation and Modernization of Systems, Vendor Selection, SOA/BPM Maturity Assessments, Five Year Road Maps, Immediate Action Plans, Implementation, Test, and Business Intelligence Strategies. 
Management 
Our management consultants can help with a variety of challenges, including establishing PMOs, Overall Solution Delivery, PMP project management, adherence to process methodologies (Six Sigma, CMMI, and HIPPA), and software development lifecycle (SDLC) methodologies such as RUP, Agile, SCRUM, XP and waterfall. 
Core Business Values 
● Commitment to long-term Client success 
○ Done.Better.Together. 
● Demonstrated and proven results 
○ Long history of wins and satisfied Clients 
● Deep expertise, innovative solutions 
○ Integration, Big Data/BI, Salesforce.com, Cloud/Virtualization, Process and Workflow, Database Systems, Management and Strategy 
● Close partnerships 
○ Salesforce, Oracle, Microsoft, other leading product/service providers, and regional companies 
Core Values for Communication and Success 
● VISIBILITY - You do great work, let it shine in the light, don’t assume others know about your accomplishments. 
● OVERCOMMUNICATION - Relationships and projects flourish when communication is a priority. Responsiveness and providing constant updates builds trust and relationships. 
● RESPECT - Respect is the foundation for our communication and actions. 
● COMPASSION - Assume the best of people and their intentions. It’s hard to know what people are going through, give your team the benefit of the doubt. 
● EMPTY CUP - Be filled with passion to solve the problem more than the tools that may be used to solve it. 
● GOOD JUDGMENT - The result of respect, compassion, empty cup, faith, visibility, and over-communication is good judgment. And good judgment breeds success. 
● FAITH - A firm belief in one another to be working toward mutual success and a better future. Having faith in teammates you don’t see often (or ever) is even more important. 
● MY PLEASURE ATTITUDE - We are a service business. It is absolutely our pleasure to serve our clients and each other -- and everyone needs to know that through what we say and do. 
Quality Policy 
We at M&S specialize in providing the highest quality, world-class consulting services in leading enterprise solutions, to achieve high customer satisfaction. 
This we shall achieve by: 
● Delivering customer projects within a reasonable time and budget expectations, while providing high-quality deliverables that meet or exceed customer requirements; 
● Learning from our experiences; 
● Continuing to improve our operations, processes, quality management system; and ● Providing a growth-oriented environment to the employees by giving them regular training on new technologies. 
2. Equal Opportunity; Immigration Law 
2.1 Equal Opportunity Statement 
Company is an equal employment opportunity employer and does not discriminate against Employees or job applicants on the basis of race, color, religion, sex (including pregnancy, gender identity, and sexual orientation), parental status, national origin, age, disability, genetic information (including family medical history), political affiliation, military service, other non-merit based factors, or any other status or condition protected by applicable federal, state, or local laws, except where a bona fide occupational qualification applies. 
This policy extends to all management practices and decisions as well as all aspects of the employment relationship, including, but not limited to, recruiting, interviewing, job assignments, training, compensation, benefits, discipline, use of facilities, participation in Company-sponsored activities, termination, and all other terms, conditions, and privileges of employment. 
2.2 Immigration Law, E-Verification, and New Hire Reporting Compliance 
In accordance with the Immigration Reform and Control Act of 1986 (IRCA), Company only employs individuals who are legally authorized to work in the United States. Should an Employee’s legal right to work in the United States be terminated, the Company will terminate employment effective immediately. 
United States Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) Form I-9 is used to verify an Employee’s identity and employment eligibility. Employees must complete the Employee section of Form I-9 and provide the required documentation supporting identity and employment eligibility before beginning 
work. The form will be used to verify employment authorization through E-Verify, a government sponsored and controlled verification system. Should any change in employability arise, the Employee must notify the Employee's Manager and Human Resources (HR) representative immediately. 
Additionally, as part of the Personal Responsibility and Work Opportunity Reconciliation Act of 1996 (PRWORA), Federal law requires that all employers report certain information about each new and rehired Employee to the appropriate Federal and State agencies. The information is then maintained in the National Directory of New Hires, which child support agencies use to collect monies due. 
2.3 Americans with Disabilities Act Compliance 
Company adheres to the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) and makes every effort to ensure that qualified individuals with a disability are not discriminated against in any terms, conditions, or privileges of employment. The ADA requires employers to provide a reasonable accommodation to qualified individuals with known disabilities in all aspects of employment, unless the accommodation would cause an undue hardship to the employer. 
An individual with a disability is a person who: 
1. Has a physical or mental impairment substantially limiting one or more major life activities; or 
2. Has a record of such impairment; or 
3. Is regarded as having such an impairment. 
A qualified individual is a person with a disability who meets the skill, education, experience, training, and other job-related requirements of a position, and who, with or without reasonable accommodation, can perform the essential functions of the position. We are committed to providing reasonable accommodation to the known physical or mental limitations of such individuals so they can perform the essential functions of a job, unless the accommodation would create an undue hardship. If you need an accommodation under the ADA, you should immediately notify the HR Representative. 
2.4 Affirmative Action 
M&S Consulting believes in establishing fair access to employment opportunities, and takes an active role to improve employment opportunities for all federally protected groups. 
Please review Appendix C: M&S Affirmative Action Policy. 
3. Policies and Rules 
3.1 Employment – Classification 
At M&S, employment is “at will” unless Employee is covered by an employment contract. Employment at will means that either the Employee or Company may choose to terminate the employment relationship at any time, with or without cause, and with or without advance notice. 
Any information outlined in this Handbook or in any other Company document, except an employment contract (in which case, how and when a termination or resignation may occur will be covered by the terms of such employment contract), does not modify the employment “at will” policy and should not be interpreted to mean that termination will occur only for “just cause”. This Handbook does not create an express or implied contract of employment for a definite and specific period of time between Employee and Company, or otherwise create an express or implied legally enforceable contractual obligations on the part of Company concerning any terms, conditions, or privileges of employment. Except for an employment contract, any documents or statements, written or oral, prior, current, or future, which conflict with the employment “at will” policy are void. 
All employees are expected to adhere to the policies of M&S. 
Regular Full-Time Employee is an Employee who has no termination date and who is regularly scheduled to work forty (40) hours or more per week. Regular full-time Employees may be either hourly or salaried Employees. 
Regular Part-Time Employee is an Employee whose position has no termination date and who is regularly scheduled to work less than thirty (30) hours per week. Regular part-time Employees may be either hourly or salaried Employees. A Regular Part-Time Employee will not receive any PTO. A Regular Part-Time Employee may be eligible for benefits dependent upon the Company SPDs, which are subject to change annually. 
Casual Employee/Paid Intern is an Employee who is hired for a certain length of time and who is paid only for their hours worked. A Casual Employee/Paid Intern will not receive any benefits or PTO. 
Provisional Employee is an Employee who has not yet completed the ninety (90) day provisional period after first being hired, as detailed in Section 3.17 of this Employee Handbook. 
3.2 Confidentiality 
As the result of employment at M&S, Employees will acquire and have access to confidential information belonging to the Company of special and unique value. This includes such matters as Company’s personnel information, suppliers, procedures, cost of merchandise, sales data, price lists, financial information, records, business plans, prospect names, business opportunities, confidential reports, Client lists and contracts, as well as any other information specific to Company and Company’s clients. 
As a condition of employment, Employees must and hereby do agree that all such information is the exclusive property of the Company, and Employee will not at any time disclose to anyone, except in the responsible exercise of said job, any such information whether or not it has been designated specifically as “confidential”. Signing a separate confidentiality agreement further clarifying this policy at Company’s requests is also a condition of continued employment with Company. It is the Employee’s responsibility to maintain the integrity of the relationship of the Company with its clients and all its Employees. Employees must also maintain the integrity of the Company and not issue or publicize any disparaging or negative comments about Company, Company’s management, Company’s clients, Company’s work, or any internal Company practices. 
Employee acknowledges that the pursuit of the activities forbidden by this Section would necessarily involve the use, disclosure or misappropriation of Confidential Information. As such to prevent the above-described disclosure, misappropriation and breach, Employee is reminded that during their employment and for a period of two (2) years after termination, without the Company's express written consent, Employee has agreed to not, directly or indirectly, (i) employ, solicit for engagement, or recommend for engagement any person employed by the Company (or any Affiliate, customer, prospect, supplier, or contractor); (ii) engage in any present or contemplated business activity that is or may be competitive with the Company (or any Affiliate); (iii) attempt to gain third party work or employment from Company suppliers, vendors, customers, and/or prospects. Employee is reminded that this is a serious breach of their obligations to the Company and Employee will pay penalties as agreed to in the Confidential Information and Invention Assignment Agreement and as allowed by law. 
If the Employee is ever unsure of any obligation under this policy, it is the Employee’s responsibility to consult with a Manager for clarification. 
3.3 Personnel Information 
It is important that the personnel records of the Company be accurate at all times. In order to avoid problems with benefit eligibility, tax liability, or the Company's ability to communicate with an Employee regarding changes, Company requires that each Employee promptly notify a direct Manager or HR representative of any change in Employee name, home address, telephone number, number of dependents, or any other information pertinent to employment with Company. 
Employees must provide an Emergency Point of Contact to the HR representative at the start of employment to ensure a third party can be contacted in the event of an emergency or extended unknown absence. 
3.4 Standards of Conduct and Business Ethics 
Company is committed to ethical practices and relationships with its Clients, Employees, and communities. The highest standards of ethical business conduct are required of Company Employees in the performance of their responsibilities. Employees will not engage in or conduct any activities that negatively impact the reputation of Company or expose Company to liabilities because of their actions. Employees will also support the collective effort to create a supportive and positive atmosphere for all Employees of Company. In support of these efforts, Employees will refrain from fostering negativity amongst peers, creating a negative impression of any Employee of Company, including themselves. 
Employees will keep sensitive and confidential information to themselves and not share or compare information that is not necessary to perform the work being requested of Employee. 
In the event of workplace dilemmas, misunderstandings, conflict, and/or frustrations, Employees are encouraged to seek guidance from their Manager or their HR Manager. All ethical concerns should comply with the following procedure and will be documented to ensure Company responsiveness. 
1. Employees should direct their concerns to their immediate Manager. The immediate Manager should respond to the complaint within a reasonable time. 
2. If the immediate Manager does not resolve the problem, the Employee may submit a complaint to the HR Manager. The Manager should be responsive to the situation upon receiving the complaint. 
3. If the Employee is not satisfied with the decisions of either party, they may refer to a Partner for input. All involved individuals, other than Managers and Human Resources, will be charged with the responsibility of not discussing the situation with any other Employee or with the complainant Employee. 
Employees who wish to voice their concern anonymously may place written concern in a sealed envelope addressed to the HR Manager in the office mailbox with no other identifiers. 
Company reserves the right to take appropriate action for any conduct it considers inappropriate. The circumstances of each situation may differ and the level of disciplinary action may also vary, depending upon factors such as the nature of the offense, whether it is repeated, the Employee’s work record and the impact of the breach on the organization. At the Manager’s discretion, disciplinary action and/or termination may occur.
3.5 Anti-Corruption Policy 
It is the policy of M&S Consulting to conduct all of our work in an honest and ethical manner. We take a zero-tolerance approach to bribery and corruption and are committed to acting professionally, fairly, and with integrity in all our business dealings and relationships and in the promotion of M&S Consulting. The Company prohibits offering or receiving bribes or corrupt payments in any form. This policy applies equally to all Employees, regardless of location or role, and also applies to agents or representatives, vendors, clients, business partners or other service providers. 
Any M&S Employee who breaches this policy will face disciplinary action, which may result in dismissal. Any non-employee who breaches this policy may have their contract terminated with immediate effect. 
3.6 Attendance and Punctuality 
Company believes that a good record of attendance and punctuality is an essential component of good work performance. Employees are expected to arrive at work and be ready to work at the scheduled start time. Regardless of start and end times, all Employees’ work schedules must include the hours from 9am - 3pm ET. If for any reason an Employee is unable to report to work on time, or is unable to remain at work 
until the end of the work day, the Employee must notify the Manager directly as soon as reasonably possible. Employees must abide by Client work hour requests when working on Client engagements. 
All time off must be requested in advance (see Paid Time Off section) and should be submitted in writing as outlined in the appropriate categories. Company may ask Employees for doctor notes should absences related to illness become excessive. Excessive absences may result in disciplinary action, up to and including termination. Unapproved absence from work will result in Unpaid leave. Continued absence without notification will result in termination. 
3.7 Dress Code 
Employee appearance contributes to M&S's culture and reputation. Employees are expected to present themselves in a professional manner that results in a favorable impression by colleagues and clients alike. 
Appropriate business attire is expected of all employees, and should be consistent with the type of work each Employee performs, the position they hold, and the image the Company seeks to project. Basic elements for appropriate and professional business attire include clothing that is in neat and clean condition. M&S expects all employees to exercise appropriate judgment with regard to personal appearance, dress and grooming to be most effective in the performance of their workplace duties. 
The Company recognizes that personal appearance is an important element of self-expression and strives not to control or dictate appropriate employee appearance, specifically with regard to jewelry or tattoos worn as a matter of personal choice. In keeping with this approach, M&S allows reasonable self expression through personal appearance, unless a) it conflicts with Employee’s ability to perform his or her position effectively or with his or her specific work environment, or b) it is regarded as offensive or harassing toward co-workers or others with whom M&S conducts business and has contact with Employees. 
Good personal grooming and hygiene are also essential and contribute to a professional appearance. Employees must abide by Client dress policies when working at Client sites. 
Business casual dress is defined as follows: 
● Casual shirts: All shirts with collars, business casual crewneck or V-neck shirts, blouses, and golf and polo shirts. Examples of inappropriate shirts include T-shirts, shirts with inappropriate slogans, tank tops, muscle shirts, camouflage and crop tops. 
● Pants: Casual slacks and trousers and colored jeans without holes, frays, etc. Examples of inappropriate pants include shorts, camouflage, and pants worn below the waist or hip line. ● Footwear: Casual slip-on or tie shoes, dress sandals, and clean athletic shoes. Examples of inappropriate footwear include flip-flops and construction or hunting boots. 
Management, sales personnel, and those Employees who come in contact with the public or clients, are expected to dress in business casual. Office employees are expected to also dress in business casual. M&S may create a dress theme day that allows for more casual dress. Please feel free to observe those days should they be presented; however, if contact is expected with clients on that day, please dress in business casual. 
If an Employee has further questions about the expected attire, please discuss these questions with the immediate Manager. 
3.8 Work Hours and Overtime Pay 
The normal work day is eight (8) hours (between 7am-7pm), and forty (40) hours represents a normal work week (Monday-Friday), commencing 12:01 AM Saturday and ending at midnight on the following Friday. While Employees are generally expected to work the number of hours stated above, the Company does not guarantee that each Employee will actually be able to perform all of the work duties in this amount of time. Employees are expected to put in the amount of time over 40 hours per week necessary to complete required job duties and occasionally, in rare circumstances, substantial extra work may be required. If an Employee is overburdened with work and is unable to complete any assignment with a moderate amount of additional work each week, please speak to a Manager; however, with more responsibility and increased pay, usually comes a greater workload and more time spent working. 
Should client sites expect different start and end times, Employees will be required to comply with client requirements. Should an Employee have any concerns regarding client work time requirements, please address them with the Employee’s Manager immediately. Any deviations from client expectations and/or requirements should be communicated to the Client after getting Manager approval. 
Exempt Employees are not paid overtime for hours worked above 40 hours per week; a moderate amount of expected overtime is built into each compensation package as a salaried Employee. 
Overtime will be paid to eligible, non-exempt Employees in accordance with applicable state law. The pay for regular overtime will be at the federal or state prescribed wage rate, whichever is higher. 
All overtime must be authorized prior to its occurrence by a Manager. Since all contracts are different, please seek the advice of a Manager. All time over the base 40 hours in a week must be clearly noted on an Employee time sheet and should be approved by a Manager. 
3.9 Timesheets Submission Requirements and Process 
Each Employee must track and submit time worked in the Company approved time system. Employees must access timesheets through the Company website (www.MandSConsulting.com/timesheet). Each Employee must electronically sign off on his or her time sheet at the end of week. Any discrepancies, upon the Manager’s review, must be resolved by the Employee before submission and approval. All time must be entered daily and final submission must be done by 9am on the Monday of the following week. In addition to hours worked, each day on the timesheet must include at least five (5) bullets outlining work completed that day. Each Manager is responsible for reviewing the weekly time sheets in the time tracking system for all personnel under his or her supervision. The time sheet is used for professional development reviews, review of billable time, Client invoicing and payroll records, which must be maintained accurately at all times. 
All time recorded and submitted must be allocated accurately against each Client:Project category and appropriate Item. When working at a Client site, Employee must select “Onsite @”. When working away 
from a Client site, but on Client work, Employee must select “Offsite @”. When working at an M&S office, Employee must select “Onsite @ M&S”. Employees must select “Offsite @ M&S” when working away from the office and on M&S work. Please note, all time off must be associated to “M&S: TIME OFF” and “Offsite @ M&S”, not the Client, regardless of work being done. 
Any time not entered into the M&S time tracking system will be counted towards Paid Time Off unless submitted and approved post fact. In those situations, Employee must notify HR of the late submission to have the time unallocated from PTO. If the unsubmitted timesheet results in PTO going over the negative 40 hours allowed, the excess will be considered unpaid time off. HR keeps a running log of outstanding time, and Employees can monitor through the payroll system. HR is happy to review those reallocations once timesheets are submitted and approved, as requested, to minimize and eliminate any inaccurate allocation of unsubmitted time towards PTO. 
3.10 Lunch Period 
Employees may take lunch and a reasonable amount of other breaks at their discretion. At the discretion of your Manager, lunch breaks may need to be taken on a staggered schedule so that an Employee’s absence from work does not create a problem with the day-to-day operations of the Company. 
3.11 Training and Professional Development Payback Policy 
In consideration of employment with Company, Employee will reimburse Company for all costs and expenses related to job-related training and professional development. These include, but are not limited to, classes, webinars, certifications, conferences, clearances, seminars, etc. subject to the following terms: 
In the event Employee’s employment ceases from Company during the first year after completion of Company-Paid training and professional development, as noted above, Employee agrees to repay all of the costs and expenses incurred by Company on a prorated basis. For each three (3) month period of employment, expenses due will decrease by 25%. 
The following chart determines amount owed: 
Number of Months of Employment 
Reimbursement to M&S
Months 1-3: 100%
Months 4-6: 75%
Months 7-9: 50%
Months 10-12: 25%
The training and professional development costs incurred by the Company on behalf of the Employee will be confirmed after the date of completion of the training or taken from the expense reporting system, and the accumulation of all receipts, invoices, or other supporting documents. Full balance owed to the Company will be withheld from the Employee’s final paycheck. 
Thi clause shall be canceled 1 year following the completion of training and professional development; however it will renew with each training or professional development event that Employee partakes in. 
The effort for the Company to initiate, manage, and maintain an Employee’s government security clearance warrants a fee should the Employee receive a clearance that was initiated by the Company. Should the Employee leave the Company during the process of procuring the clearance or within 2 years of final issuance, the Employee will be required to pay Company a fee for operational support of $3,000.00. 
Please speak with HR about costs associated with work authorizations, as some fees may need to be paid back to the Company as allowed by federal law and agency regulations. 
This clause does not constitute an employment contract. If it becomes necessary to enforce this clause and judgment is entered against the Employee, the Employee will pay all costs and expenses incurred by the Company, including reasonable attorney fees. 
3.12 Safety and Accident Rules 
Safety is a priority at M&S, and we strive to provide a clean, hazard-free, and safe environment in accordance with the Occupational Safety and Health Act of 1970. 
Each Employee is expected to take part in helping create and maintain a safe environment at the Company locations. Employees should observe all posted safety rules, adhere to all safety instructions, and use safety equipment when required. It is an Employee’s responsibility to learn the location of all safety and emergency equipment, as well as the safety and/or emergency phone numbers. Employees may be required to purchase and maintain personal safety equipment. Any problems with Company-provided safety equipment should be reported to a Manager. If it is not safe to work for any reason, report the problem to a Manager immediately. 
Each Employee is required to comply with all client site safety rules and policies while working at the client sites. 
All work related accidents are covered by Worker’s Compensation Insurance pursuant to the laws of the state(s) in which we operate. 
3.13 Tobacco Use 
Our goal is to provide a healthy and pleasant work environment for all Employees. Company prohibits any form of tobacco use on Company premises and within 15 feet of any entrance. Should Employee use any tobacco products, Employee must properly dispose of such products prior to entering Company premises. Should Employee work at a Client site, Employee must adhere to Client policies and practices regarding Tobacco use. 
3.14 Use of Company Property 
Company will provide each Employee with the necessary equipment to perform job requirements. None of this equipment should be used for personal use, nor should any equipment be removed from Company work premises unless approved by a Manager. This includes Company vehicles, laptops, monitors, keyboard/mouse, telephones, webcams, headsets, two-way communication equipment, keys, badges/fobs etc. 
Equipment and Work Product 
All work done for Company is Company property. Upon separation from the Company, all property (emails, Client work, internal work, etc.) is to be returned to or remain on Company equipment. All work must be transferred to the Company by the close of business on the final day of employment. Employees are strictly prohibited from deleting any client specific files or folders or any work produced while employed. Employees are prohibited from transferring, downloading, or uploading any Company or Client information to personal laptops, cloud, or any other medium for personal or professional use outside of Company use. 
Use of radios, audio headsets, and televisions, Company-owned or otherwise, is at the discretion of Company Managers only, and – if allowed – must be used in a manner that does not interfere with the safety of the workplace or with the ability of others to perform their work. 
Employees must safeguard any and all devices, passwords, or codes used to gain access to Company’s clients premises and systems. Employees must comply with client requirements and security policies. 
All Employees must sign the Equipment Liability Agreement (ELA) and utilize Puff to account for each item received from the Company. All equipment must be returned properly and in similar condition to the Company upon termination of employment within 10 business days (see Exit Interview section). All equipment being returned to the company via any common courier shipping method must be insured and packaged appropriately to ensure the contents are not damaged upon return to the Company. 
Any items or packages taken out of the workplace are subject to inspection at any time. Likewise, any personal locker or storage space provided is also subject to inspection at any time. 
Office Supplies, Business Cards, and Keys/Badges/Fobs 
Business cards may be issued to an Employee with a seniority level of Manager or higher, or those who routinely attend business conferences or marketing events where it would be to the benefit of the business. If issued, business cards may not be altered in any way, nor used for any reason other than Company business. In the event of termination, business cards must be returned as Company property. 
Use of Company’s stationery, office supplies, or postage for personal use is strictly prohibited. Company premises, telephones, and email are not to be used for Employees or others to engage in the practice of soliciting collections or donations; selling raffles, goods, or services; operating betting pools; or solicitations of any kind. 
Company may also issue office keys, badges, and/or key fobs in order for Employees to access the building. All Company keys should be safeguarded and Employees are responsible for keeping facilities secure. Company keys cannot be duplicated and any lost badge, key and/or fob must be reported immediately to Company Managers. Company may use lock boxes and touchpads to gain access to Company premises. Touchpad and lock box combinations are to be kept private and confidential at all times and are not to be shared with anyone. Any lost, damaged and/ or replaced key fobs and/or badges may incur a fee of $20 per incident. After 3 lost cards and/or fobs, Company may choose to not reissue additional key fobs or badges. 
3.15 Substance Abuse Policy 
Company takes seriously the problem of drug and alcohol abuse and is committed to providing a workplace free of such substances. This policy applies to all Employees of the Company. 
No Employee is allowed to consume, possess, sell, or purchase any alcoholic beverage on any property owned by Company, or in any vehicle owned or leased by Company. No Employee may use, possess, sell, transfer, or purchase any drug or other controlled substance while working for the Company. The exceptions are over-the-counter pain relievers and the like, used as intended and directed, and any other drugs that have been prescribed to you, and which are being used as prescribed by the Employee's doctor. Even in such cases, Employees may not sell over-the-counter or prescribed medicines to anyone at M&S or Client sites or on M&S or Client premises. 
Company will not tolerate Employees that are impaired by or under the influence of alcohol or drugs while working. Employees struggling with drug or alcohol problems are encouraged to seek services through the EAP. 
In cases where the use of alcohol or drugs poses a threat to the safety of other people or property, an Employee must report the violation. Employees who violate our Substance Abuse Policy will be subject to disciplinary action, up to and including termination. 
As a part of Company’s policy to ensure a drug and alcohol free workplace, within the limits of applicable federal and state laws, the Company reserves the right, in its sole discretion, to test for drugs and alcohol. Some such situations may include, but not be limited to the following: 
A. In conjunction with an offer of employment with Company; 
B. In conjunction with Client contract requirements; 
C. Where there are reasonable grounds for believing an Employee is under the influence of alcohol or drugs; 
D. As part of an investigation of any accident in the workplace in which there are reasonable grounds to suspect alcohol and/or drugs contributed to the accident; 
E. On a random basis, where allowed by statute; 
F. As a follow-up to a rehabilitation program, where allowed by statute; 
G. As necessary for the safety of Employees, Clients, or the general public where allowed by statute. 
All tested Employees will be able to receive a copy of the laboratory results that certify the results or the testing done. It is a condition of employment and continued employment with the Company that each Employee complies with the Substance Abuse Policy. 
3.16 Nondiscrimination/Anti-Harassment Policy and Complaint Procedure 
M&S is committed to a work environment in which all individuals are treated with respect and dignity. Each individual has the right to work in a professional atmosphere that promotes equal employment 
opprtunities and prohibits unlawful discriminatory practices, including but not limited to harassment. Therefore, M&S expects that all relationships among persons in the office will be business-like and free of explicit bias, prejudice and harassment. 
M&S has developed this policy to ensure that all its Employees can work in an environment free from unlawful harassment, discrimination, and retaliation. M&S will make every reasonable effort to ensure that all concerned are familiar with these policies and are aware that any complaint in violation of such policies will be investigated and resolved appropriately. 
Any Employee who has questions or concerns about these policies should talk with the Manager of Human Resources or a member of the Management Team. 
These policies should not, and may not, be used as a basis for excluding or separating individuals of a particular gender, or any other protected characteristic, from participating in business or work-related social activities or discussions. In other words, no one should make the mistake of engaging in discrimination or exclusion to avoid allegations of harassment. The law and the policies of M&S prohibit disparate treatment on the basis of sex or any other protected characteristic, with regard to terms, conditions, privileges and perquisites of employment. The prohibition against harassment, discrimination, and retaliation are intended to complement and further those policies, not to form the basis of an exception to them. 
Equal employment opportunity 
It is the policy of M&S to ensure equal opportunity without discrimination or harassment on the basis of race (including hairstyle/texture), religion, color, sex, age, citizenship, national origin, disability, marital status, sexual orientation, gender identity or expression, genetic information, or any other characteristic protected by law. M&S prohibits any such discrimination or harassment. 
Retaliation 
M&S encourages reporting of all perceived incidents of discrimination or harassment. It is the policy of M&S to promptly and thoroughly investigate such reports. M&S prohibits retaliation against any individual who reports discrimination or harassment or participates in an investigation of such reports. 
Sexual harassment 
Sexual harassment constitutes discrimination and is illegal under federal, state, and local laws. For the purposes of this policy, “sexual harassment” is defined, as in Equal Employment Opportunity Commission (EEOC) Guidelines, as unwelcome sexual advances, requests for sexual favors, and other verbal or physical conduct of a sexual nature when (1) submission to such conduct is made either explicitly or implicitly a term of condition of an individual’s employment, (2) submission to or rejection of such conduct by an individual is used as the basis for employment decision affecting such individual, or (3) such conduct has the purpose or effect of unreasonably interfering with an individual’s work performance or creating an intimidating, hostile or offensive work environment. 
Harassment 
Harassment on the basis of any other protected characteristic is also strictly prohibited. Under this policy, harassment is verbal, written, or physical conduct that denigrates or shows hostility or aversion toward an individual because of his or her race, color, religion, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity or expression, national origin, age, disability, marital status, citizenship, genetic information, or any other characteristic protected by law, or that of his or her relatives, friends, or associates, and that: (1) has the purpose or effect of creating an intimidating, hostile or offensive work environment, (2) has the purpose or effect of unreasonably interfering with an individual’s work performance, or (3) otherwise adversely affects an individual’s employment opportunities. 
Harassing conduct includes epithets, slurs or negative stereotyping; threatening, intimidating or hostile acts; denigrating jokes; and written or graphic material that denigrates or shows hostility or aversion toward an individual or group that is placed on walls or elsewhere on the employer’s premises or circulated in the workplace, on company time or using company equipment by email, phone (including voice messages), text messages, social networking sites or other means. 
Individuals and Conduct Covered 
These policies apply to all applicants and Employees, whether related to conduct engaged in by fellow Employees or by someone not directly connected to M&S (e.g., an outside vendor, consultant or customer). 
Conduct prohibited by these policies is unacceptable in the workplace and in any work-related setting outside the workplace, such as during business trips, business meetings, and business social events. 
Reporting an Incident of Harassment, Discrimination, or Retaliation 
M&S encourages reporting of all perceived incidents of discrimination, harassment, or retaliation, regardless of the offender’s identity or position. Individuals who believe that they have been the victim of such conduct should discuss their concerns with their immediate supervisor, any member of the management team, human resources, or any ombudsman. See the complaint procedure described below. 
In addition, M&S encourages individuals who believe they are being subjected to such conduct to promptly advise the offender that his or her behavior is unwelcome, and to request that it be discontinued. Often this action alone will resolve the problem. M&S recognizes, however, that an individual may prefer to pursue the matter through complaint procedures. 
Complaint Procedure 
Individuals who believe they have been the victims of conduct prohibited by this policy, or believe they have witnessed such conduct should discuss their concerns with their immediate supervisor, human resources, any member of the management team, or any ombudsman. 
M&S encourages the prompt reporting of complaints or concerns so that rapid and constructive action can be taken before relationships become irreparably strained. Therefore, while no fixed reporting period has been established, early reporting and intervention have proven to be the most effective method of resolving actual or perceived incidents of harassment. 
Any reported allegations of harassment, discrimination, or retaliation will be investigated promptly. This investigation may include individual interviews with the parties involved and, where necessary, with individuals who may have observed the alleged conduct or may have other relevant knowledge. 
M&S will maintain confidentiality throughout the investigatory process to the extent consistent with adequate investigation and appropriate corrective action. 
Retaliation against an individual for reporting harassment or discrimination, or for participating in an investigation of a claim of harassment or discrimination is a serious violation of this policy and, like harassment or discrimination itself, will be subject to disciplinary action. Acts of retaliation should be reported immediately and will be promptly investigated and addressed. 
Misconduct constituting harassment, discrimination, or retaliation will be dealt with appropriately. Responsive action may include, for example, training, referral to counseling or disciplinary action such as a warning, reprimand, withholding of a promotion or pay increase, reassignment, temporary suspension without pay, or termination, as M&S believes appropriate under the circumstances. 
If a party to a complaint does not agree with its resolution, that party may appeal to M&S’s Managing Partners. 
False and malicious complaints of harassment, discrimination, or retaliation (as opposed to complaints that, even if erroneous, are made in good faith) may be the subject of appropriate disciplinary action. 
3.17 Performance and Salary Reviews; Provisional Period 
Each new or promoted Employee will be given a job description that details the requirements and expectations of the new position. Performance reviews will normally be conducted every twelve (12) months from the date you were hired with the exception of the three (3) month review at the end of your provisional period. Employees must complete a Survey prior to the annual performance reviews and submit it as directed. 
Employee reviews are based on job description, Client job duties if applicable, work performance, Manager inputs, PTO usage, and timesheet reviews. Salary increases will be based upon reviewing these results as well as the following: dependability, cooperation, attitude, and any disciplinary actions that have been taken. The Employee's Manager will review and discuss salary, job position and expectations during the review. 
Employees are requested to participate in Company advocacy and professional growth opportunities through activities such as blog posts, presentations, brown bag events, article publishing, etc. Participation in such activities will be considered during Employee reviews. 
During the ninety (90) day provisional period upon first being hired by Company, Employee understands that they will not be considered a regular Employee until they have satisfactorily completed this required provisional period of employment, as determined by Company management. The purpose of the provisional period of employment is to determine Employee job satisfaction and to allow Company to evaluate Employee job performance. In the event that Employee job performance is evaluated as being unsatisfactory, the provisional Employee may be terminated without prejudice at any time for any reason during the provisional period. 
During said provisional period, Employee may or may not be eligible for some of the benefits offered by Company to Regular Employees. 
3.18 Payroll 
Employees will be paid for work on regularly scheduled biweekly payruns. Paychecks will be deposited directly into Employee approved bank accounts. Should an Employee not have access to a bank account, checks may be mailed or picked up from the Company during normal business hours. 
If there is an error in a paycheck, notify your Manager or HR representative immediately. Every effort will be made to remedy the discrepancy as quickly as possible. If a physical paycheck is lost or stolen, notify your Manager or HR contact immediately. A new paycheck will be issued after payment has been stopped on the original check. Company will not be obligated to indemnify an Employee for any monetary loss suffered as a result of a lost paycheck if we are unable to stop payment on the original check. 
Company will deduct Federal Income Tax, Social Security, Medicare, State and Local Income Tax, and all other legally required deductions from Employees’ payroll check each pay period, and will remit to the appropriate tax agency. Company is not responsible for payment or reimbursement of any Employee-paid taxes incurred through employment. 
Employees are responsible for reviewing all payroll deductions and taxes for accuracy, based on personal tax situation. Any inaccuracies must be reported to a Manager or the HR representative immediately. If applicable, insurance premiums, 401k, child support, loan repayments, FSA, HSA, Life Insurance, tax for LTD insurance premiums, etc. will also be deducted from your payroll check each pay period and remitted accordingly. 
3.19 Reporting Absences 
In all instances specified in Sections 4.1 through 4.2, as described below, all leave requests and approvals should be made in writing whenever possible. 
The Company is able to secure work based upon our estimates of performance and our history of reliability. Therefore, the Company expects all Employees to assume diligent responsibility for their attendance and promptness. Continued dependability, quality, and pride of service are factors over which each individual Employee has a great deal of influence. If an Employee is absent and cannot perform the required job duties on time, or produces substandard work, then we all pay the price by losing the confidence of the Client. 
The work schedule is constructed around the maximum working hours and capabilities of the staff. It is extremely important that each Employee be punctual in arrival for work at the beginning of the workday or shift. If an Employee knows that they will be absent or late arriving for work, notify a Manager personally no later than one hour before the scheduled start time. In the event of a disabling sickness or accident while performing job duties, notify a Manager immediately. 
If Employee is absent for more than three consecutive workdays, a statement from a physician may be required before Employee will be permitted to return to work. In such instances, the Company also reserves the right to require the Employee to submit to an examination by a physician designated by the Company at its discretion. 
Unexcused or excessive absenteeism or tardiness may be grounds for disciplinary action, up to and including termination. If Employee is absent for three or more consecutive business days and fails to follow proper procedure for reporting an absence, this will be considered a resignation of your position with the Company, and you will be terminated for job abandonment. 
3.20 Certifications and Clearances 
Company may offer initial employment, or eligible work, to Employees based upon certificates and clearances in place, or ones Employee may be able to acquire (if needed on specific projects). Employees working on projects dependent on the ability to keep specific certificates and clearances must ensure they maintain ethical behavior so as not to jeopardize their ability to maintain the necessary credentials. In addition, should a security cleared Employee act in a manner as to put his clearance in danger (example Employee gets a speeding ticket), he or she will be required to notify a Manager as well as the appropriate authorities immediately to ensure swift action is taken to maintain the clearance. 
Additionally, if the work available to an existing Employee requires he or she to acquire a certificate or clearance, and the Employee is unable to obtain said certificate or clearance, it may be grounds for termination. If the Employee loses his or her security clearance and is not placed upon another project within a reasonable time frame, as determined by a Manager, it may be grounds for termination. This includes, but is not limited to, Public Trust, Confidential, Secret, and Top Secret (TS)/Sensitive Compartmented Information (SCI). The same holds true for those individuals for which their work is dependent on specific certifications or clearances (example - PMP). 
3.21 Background Check Policy 
At times, Employee’s offer of initial employment may be contingent upon successfully clearing a background check or government clearance, which may be conducted by any government entity or another third-party agency depending on the expected project. Should Employee not pass/clear the checks, the employment offer may be withdrawn. In addition, during the course of employment, Employee may be requested to complete and pass a background check or government clearance in order to be onboarded to any client engagement. If the Employee does not pass/clear the checks, employment may be terminated due to lack of work and/or ineligibility to perform the work available. 
For the background checks, Employee will need to complete a background check authorization form. 
Background checks may include the following: 
● Social Security Verification 
● Prior Employment Verification 
● Personal and Professional References 
● Education Verification 
● Criminal History 
● Motor Vehicle Records 
● Credit History 
● Drug Screening 
Requirements may include the above and are specific to the entity conducting the clearance check. Please refer to the Certifications and Clearances section for additional detail on government clearances. In instances where negative or incomplete information is obtained, Management will determine whether or not to offer or continue employment. 
3.22 Ability to Commit M&S 
Unless indicated in writing (via email or hard copy letter), Employee is not an authorized representative or negotiator of M&S Consulting. Employees cannot commit M&S Consulting to any engagements, NDAs/confidentiality, reporting, payment, taxation, or obligation - legal, financial, or otherwise. Employees may not sign any agreement with outside firms or any other entity limiting the Company's ability to submit your qualifications or resume to potential clients for project work. 
3.23 Diversity and Inclusion Policy 
M&S Consulting values, practices, and supports a diverse workplace and leverages the effects of diversity to achieve a competitive business advantage. Company integrates diversity and inclusion strategies in recruitment, performance management, leadership assessment and training, and holds all personnel accountable for behavioral standards. 
Please review Appendix B: M&S Diversity and Inclusion Policy 
4. Benefit Details 
Except where required by applicable state or federal law, the benefits provided to Employees by Company are subject to change at any time. Please communicate with your Manager or HR representative if you have any questions concerning the benefits available to you as an Employee of Company. 
It is our goal to hire Employees who will work hard and help the Company prosper. In turn, this allows the Company to offer competitive benefits. Group and health related benefit programs offered by the Company include: 
● Medical Insurance 
● Dental Insurance 
● Vision Insurance 
● Flexible Spending Account (Dependent Care, Medical Care, and Transportation) ● Health Savings Account (HSA) 
● Cafeteria 125 (Premium Only Plan) 
● Safe Harbor 401(k) Plan 
● Access to Financial Planners/Advisors 
● Company Paid Long Term Disability and AD&D Insurance 
● Company Paid Life Insurance 
● Company Paid LTD Insurance Premium Taxation Option 
● Voluntary Short Term Disability Insurance 
● Voluntary Additional Life and AD&D Insurance (Self, Spouse, Children) 
● Voluntary Critical Illness Insurance 
● Voluntary Accident Insurance 
● Voluntary Whole Life Insurance 
● Employee Assistance Program (legal, counseling, etc.) 
● Business Credit Card (with Partner’s approval) 
● Laptop and/or server environment(s) in Company cloud computing environment ● Flex Week Schedule 
● Paid Time Off 
● Holiday Schedule 
● Provisions for Unpaid Time Off 

The following pages briefly describe our benefit programs. Legal plan documents contain complete details and will always govern if a question arises. 
Eligibility and Enrollment 
Regular Full-Time Employees who work thirty-seven and a half (37.5) or more hours each week are eligible for numerous benefits at M&S Consulting, including all company-paid insurance benefits. Full-time employees who work thirty (30) or more hours each week, but less than thirty-seven and a half (37.5), are eligible for the medical insurance benefits through Highmark BCBS only. Employees must enroll by completing the appropriate paperwork. Should enrollment forms and benefit selections not be received within thirty (30) days of employment start date, Employee will not be enrolled in any optional/voluntary benefits for that current benefit year. Please ask HR representative for additional benefit details and forms. 
General guidelines for benefit starts are outlined below. 
Benefit 
Benefit Start Date
Medical, Dental, Vision Insurances
If elected, first day of the first full month following hire date with the Company
Safe Harbor 401K
Immediate deferral. Company match will start on the first full pay run after six (6) months of full time employment if the Employee defers.
Company Paid Insurances (LTD, Life, AD&D) 
Hire date with the Company
Voluntary Insurances (Additional Life, AD&D, STD, Critical, Whole Life, and Accident)
If elected, first day of the first full month following hire date with the Company



Should an Employee have an eligible life changing event (marriage, birth, divorce, death, etc.) after enrolled 
in the plan, the Employee has 30 days to change coverage or they must wait until open enrollment at year end, which may require evidence of insurability. 
Company uses a measurement period of September through August for eligibility of medical coverage. 
4.1 Holidays 
Company offers nine (9) paid holidays per calendar year. Company observes the following holidays: 
1. New Year’s Day (January 1) 
2. President’s Day (Third Monday in February) 
3. Good Friday (Friday before Easter) 
4. Memorial Day (Last Monday in May) 
5. Independence Day (July 4) 
6. Labor Day (First Monday in September) 
7. Thanksgiving (Fourth Thursday in November) 
8. Day after Thanksgiving 
9. Christmas (December 25) 
All holidays are floating days, which means should Employee work on a billable project on a paid holiday, Employee may take the time as paid time off at a later date, with approval from Employee’s Manager. Should Employee work on Client work that does not observe a M&S holiday, Client holiday schedule will take precedence. In such cases, Employees may float the M&S holiday to a Client observed holiday or another time that suits their PTO schedule. Should Client have a holiday where Employee is not billable and it is not a M&S holiday, Employee can float an M&S holiday to cover the time off or use PTO. Employees should speak with Manager about client holidays and how to schedule PTO according to the client schedule. Typical additional Client/other holidays to consider are: 
● Martin Luther King Day 
● Juneteenth 
● Indigenous Peoples’ Day 
● Veteran’s Day 
When a holiday falls on a Saturday, the company will designate the Friday preceding, and when a holiday falls on a Sunday, Company will designate the Monday following as the observed day. Regular full-time Employees are paid eight (8) straight time hours for each holiday. For those employees working four 10-hour days, you must make up the additional two hours in the same work week or take PTO for those two hours. Regular Part-Time, Casual/Paid Intern, and Provisional Employees are not paid for holidays unless they are specifically requested to work on the designated holiday. For salaried Employees, this generally means that there will be no deduction from your usual pay check on account of a holiday occurring during your pay period. The offer of paid holidays is at the discretion of Management, or as is required by state law. Holidays must be used in the year they are granted, and cannot be carried over to the following year. 
The following conditions apply to M&S’ holiday pay policy: 
● Holiday pay will not be considered as time worked for the purpose of overtime calculations. ● Holiday pay is computed at an individual employee’s base rate of pay. 
● If an employee is scheduled to work on a holiday, the employee will be paid his or her regular rate of pay and can bank the holiday to be used at a later date. 
● Holidays will not be paid to employees on any type of unpaid leave. 
● Holidays falling within an approved scheduled vacation will be recorded as holiday pay. ● An employee must be present at work or have approved PTO on his or her last scheduled day prior to the holiday and the first scheduled day after the holiday to receive holiday pay. 
Time off without pay may be granted to employees provided that undue hardship is not introduced to the company, and the employee does not have a PTO balance. 
4.2 Paid and Unpaid Time off 
Company believes that its Employees are key to what makes a great Company. Although work makes up a large portion of an Employee’s life, we believe that a balance between work and non-work activities is essential to maintain quality performance and a positive work atmosphere. To support this idea, the Company has designed a Paid Time Off plan (PTO), which is inclusive of vacation and sick leave. PTO for each Employee is listed in their individual employment offers. The offer of PTO is at the discretion of Management, or as is required by state law. 
Employees cannot take more time off than they accrue during the first six (6) months of employment. Accruals are based on the January-December calendar year. Employees may find they need time away from work prior to accruing the hours necessary. In such cases, an Employee may build up a negative balance with approval of the Manager; however, the negative hours cannot exceed 40 hours. PTO will not be granted for Employees with a balance of negative 40 hours or over until the accrued PTO brings the number below negative 40 hours. With Manager approval, if the time off is still needed after exhausting PTO balance, an Employee may take Unpaid leave. Unpaid leave must be taken in a full workday increment. Negative balances carry over from year to year to ensure Employees pay back the time they have used and not accrued. Employees are allowed to carry over up to 40 hours of positive time each calendar year. Upon termination of employment, Employees who resign on their own accord or those who were terminated are required to pay the Company back for PTO that was used, but not accrued. Unused accrued PTO will not be paid to the Employee upon termination. 
All employees who are actively at work or on PTO will continue to accrue PTO provided by M&S. Employees on unpaid leave are not entitled to continue accruing PTO. This includes employees who are receiving income replacement benefits from a source other than M&S payroll such as short-term disability or workers’ compensation insurance. 
Employees on military leave of absence or Family and Medical Leave Act (FMLA) are also not eligible for PTO accrual. 
These policies apply unless state employment laws differ from this policy, in which case your state laws will apply. 
For extended leave or FMLA eligibility, see Leave of Absence or The Family and Medical Leave Act (FMLA). 

Note: When working on Client engagements, the Employee must review the Client mandated PTO periods, should there be any. Employees should work to align their PTO with the Client mandated time off /holiday schedule so as to minimize disruption to work. Additionally, in the event that the Client engagement ends and there are no other Client engagements that the Employee can work on, Employee must start using 
available PTO hours incrementally each week until another Client engagement begins, or available PTO hours are exhausted, whichever comes first. If available PTO hours are exhausted prior to another Client engagement beginning, Employee will be put on unpaid leave. 
Paid time off must be captured in the Company time and expense system. Any time, regardless of if the time is spent on PTO, client work, or otherwise, not entered into the M&S time tracking system will be counted towards PTO after each pay period. Those Employees who submit their time after the pay period and wish to have the time unallocated from PTO, must notify HR of the late submission. Please see Section 3.9 for additional information. 

Industrial accidents and illnesses are covered by Worker’s Compensation Insurance pursuant to the requirements of the laws in the state(s) in which the Company operates. The language outlined in this section does not apply to those illnesses or injuries that are covered by a worker's compensation policy. 
Paid Time off Request and Approval Process 
Company grants paid time away from work under its annual paid leave policy. An Employee may use this leave for any purpose he or she wishes, including vacations, unpaid holidays, illness, or time away from work for personal or family matters. Vacation requests must be submitted in writing to your Manager at least four (4) weeks in advance, if possible. Employee’s Manager must provide written approval prior to Vacation time off. If working on a Client project, the Client must also be notified at least four (4) weeks in advance or as early as possible. Paid time off may be taken in one (1) hour increments as long as it does not interfere with work being done for Company or Company Client. Every effort will be made by the Company to accommodate requests; however, business circumstances may not permit all requests to be honored. It is imperative that you review your PTO requests with your Manager in a timely manner to maximize the opportunity for approval. 
If the Employee is unable to work due to illness, Employee must notify the Employee's Manager as soon as possible and by the time you are expected to report to work. 
4.3 Flex Weeks 
A flex week is a week in which an Employee may distribute the minimum 40 hours of work over the five (5) day period (Monday-Friday) in a non-uniform fashion. Employees who travel each week are afforded the opportunity to have flex weeks each week they are traveling. Those Employees who do not travel are expected to be in the office during their normal work hours, generally from 9:00am–6:00pm, 8 hours a day 
at minimum. They are given the opportunity to have one flex week per month. During non-flex weeks, those days in which less than eight (8) hours are logged against a client and job, the remaining hours must be allocated to PTO. Exceptions may be made during a non-flex week if between travel with prior Manager approval. 
4.4 Military Service 
Company will allow time off (maximum of 14 days) work without pay for Employees in the U.S. Armed Forces who are reserve members of the U.S. Armed Forces or Military Reserves, who take approved leave for training purposes. You may receive pay if you choose to use accrued vacation time for your leave. For those Employees called to active duty, Company follows all Employee rights provisions under USERRA. Employees are requested to notify their Manager immediately after they are aware of their military obligation. 
4.5 Bereavement Leave 
Company will allow for one day of bereavement leave per request for participation in the appropriate services for the loss of a family member and one additional day of bereavement leave for the loss of an immediate family member. An immediate family member is one of the following to the Employee: spouse, child, step-child, parent, step-parent, siblings, grandparent, grandchild, niece, nephew, father-in-law, 
mother-in-law, brother-in-law, sister-in-law, son-in-law, or daughter-in-law. You must request leave as soon as you are informed and work with your Manager to arrange for additional leave through vacation or unpaid leave benefits if needed. The offer of bereavement leave is at the discretion of Management, or as is required by state law. 
4.6 Jury Duty Leave 
While the Fair Labor Standards Act (FLSA) does not require payment for time off due to Jury Duty, Company will pay your prorated salary for one day of jury duty per year. Any days summoned after one day must be taken by you as PTO or unpaid leave. Should you be called for duty, you will be asked to provide verification from the court that you served with the start and end time identified, as allowed by state law. If jury duty is excused earlier than the end of the work day, you must report to work for the remainder of the day. If you do not return to work after early dismissal from jury duty, the time will be counted towards PTO. You will receive pay for the day when your proof of participation is confirmed with start and end times and/or you complete your work day should you be released early. 
4.7 Medical, Dental, and Vision Insurance 
The Company offers medical, dental, and vision benefits for Employees and their covered dependents (if elected) for medically necessary treatment and professional services. Examples of covered services include hospital charges, surgical charges, office visits, and prescription drugs. Employees should maximize this benefit by reading coverage information and being familiar with and following the cost containment programs featured in the plan. 
All active full-time regular W2 salaried Employees (those who work at least 37.5 hours a week) become eligible for participation in the plan on the first day of the first full month after the date of hire. See Eligibility and Enrollment under the Section 5 header. 
Company makes medical, vision and/or dental insurance available to eligible Employees and their eligible family members. Company contributes to the cost of the premiums for the group benefits, with the Employee sharing the remaining cost. Please speak with the HR representative for details on Company contributions to group benefits at the time of onboarding. 
Medical insurance is provided through Mountain State Blue Cross Blue Shield (MS BCBS). Dental and Vision insurances are provided through Principal Insurance Group. The vision services may require upfront payment with reimbursement depending on the provider. Please utilize the information sent by the carrier to determine the right option. 
For the MS BCBS benefits, Employees may also use https://www.mybenefitshome.com as an additional resource to search for providers and manage claims as well as contact the carrier directly. 
For dental and vision insurance, you will get an insurance card in the mail directly from Principal. 
Should an Employee have any questions or need help understanding the medical, vision, or dental benefits, please feel free to contact the HR representative or Assured Partners. The contact information for the third party administrators is as follows: 

Assured Partners 
(8:00am – 5:00pm M-F) 
Phone: 1 (304) 345-8000 / Fax: 1 (304) 345-3321 
Claims and Benefits Specialists 
Geoff Christian - geoff.christian@assuredpartners.com or (304) 552-3919 
Denise Hudson – denise.hudson@assuredpartners.com or (681) 339-0778 
4.8 Employee Assistance Program 
Company will provide confidential and voluntary assistance through its Employee Assistance Program (EAP), offered by Principal Insurance Group, to all Employees and their family members in order to help resolve personal issues. For the welfare of Employees as well as business operations, Company encourages Employees to take advantage of this benefit through employment with Company. EAP is a free benefit service provided by Principal Insurance Group which helps an Employee and its eligible dependents gain a better understanding of the Employee’s specific situation and collaborates to help find solutions that are responsible to existing needs such as mental health support, life transitions, work-related issues, positive self-care, referrals, and any many other services. EAP can be reached by phone 24/7 at (800) 316-2796 and also includes up to three face-to-face assessments and counseling sessions per calendar year. 
4.9 Safe Harbor 401K 
Employees are eligible to enroll in the Company sponsored Safe Harbor 401K plan immediately upon employment. Salary deferral may start as soon as the full time Employee should choose to invest. Company match will start with the pay period after 6 full months of employment, should the Employee defer a percentage of their pay at that time. 
Company Match Matrix: 
Individual Deferral 
Company Match after 6 months of full time employment
1% 
1%
2% 
2%
3% 
3%
4% 
3.5%
5% 
4%
>5% 
4%



Some restrictions for highly compensated Employees may apply. Eligible Employees may enroll by contacting their Manager. 

4.10 Worker’s Compensation 
Company is committed to meeting its obligations under applicable workers’ compensation acts which provide medical, rehabilitation, and wage-replacement benefits to individuals who sustain work-related injuries or illnesses while working. All work-related accidents, injuries, and illnesses must be reported immediately. The failure to promptly report an accident, injury, or illness may result in the loss of coverage under workers’ compensation insurance. 
4.11 Professional Development 
Employees may develop an interest in or be requested to acquire specific certifications to bolster their professional development and support their career ambitions. With the written approval (through email) of Employee’s Manager, Employee may pursue professional development activities such as: 
● Certification classes and exam 
● Continuing education classes/conferences to maintain certificates (PMP, etc.) ● General continuing education classes/conferences (Oracle, Salesforce.com) 
● Professional society sessions (PMI, ASQ, IEEE, etc.) 
● Writing on Company blog pages 
● Writing in professional forums (Oracle, etc.) 
● Submitting articles to journals, magazines, etc. 
Employees are encouraged to speak with their Managers about professional development ideas and opportunities. Before incurring any expenses associated with Professional Development, Employee must obtain written approval from his Manager. Should approval be granted, conference reservations should be done months in advance so as to incur the lowest cost of admission. Conferences with fees in excess of $500 may not be booked within the 30 days prior to the conference without written approval by the Manager. Certification exams may be taken with the approval of your Manager. M&S Consulting supports learning and opportunities for professional development. M&S will reimburse Employees for exams that have been approved by a Manager to take and passed on a specific topic. Should Employee require multiple attempts to pass the same exam, when the original exam fee and retake exam fee are the same amount, Company will reimburse 50% of up to one failed exam attempt along with 100% of the passed exam fee. Should the retake fee be less than the original exam fee, and the employee passes the retake exam, Company will reimburse for 100% of the first failed exam fee and 50% of the passed retake exam fee. In the scenario of a retake exam fee being higher than the original exam fee, and the Employee passes the retake exam, Company will pay for 100% of the first failed exam fee and 50% of the passed retake exam fee. These two (2) reimbursement requests must be submitted in one expense entry with appropriate receipts and certificates to show accomplishment. Please refer to Section 3.11 on Training and Professional Development Payback Policy. 
4.12 Expense Entry & Reimbursement 
At the discretion of Company Partner, Employee may be offered the use of a Company issued business credit card through Citibank or a Company prepaid Visa card for business use only. The Business Credit Card (BCC) will only be used for preapproved Company sanctioned purchases, business travel, and/or 
preapproved business meals. Each Employee must manage BCC charges using the established online account for each card holder. Questions should be directed to the HR Manager. Should Employee incur an expense on the BCC, he or she must submit the expense through the Company time and expense system within two (2) weeks of incurring the charge. Should expenses incurred on BCC not be submitted within two (2) weeks, Employees will be reminded of their obligation. After three (3) reminders, BCC will be canceled for the Employee. The following notation must be entered into the system along with the expense details. 
● “R”: This must be entered into the description field of the expense line item before the description. The “R” denotes that the expense is reimbursable to the Employee. 
● “BCC”: This must be entered into the description field of the expense line item before the description. The “BCC” denotes that the expense was incurred on the business credit card. 
● “PP”: This must be entered into the description field of the expense line item before the description. The “PP” denotes that the expense was incurred on the Prepaid Visa card. 
Reference Number should be entered in the submission as well. It should showcase the week ending (WE) date for the week in which the expense is incurred. 
Memo should outline the week for which the expense is incurred and the client to which the expense is attributable. 
Receipts must be submitted via upload to the appropriate GDrive folder (to be created by you with a title of “Receipts - YOUR NAME”) upon submission of the expense report. Expense reports will not be approved without all receipts (for items more than $20 or if the Client requests all receipts). For Employees, expenses owed will be reimbursed in the pay run following expense approval. Any expense that does not have a receipt associated with it will not be reimbursed. If the expense was incurred on the BCC, the amount of the expense will be deducted from the Employee pay. Should the Employee find the receipt at a later date, he will be reimbursed for the expense. 
All charges to the prepaid Visa card must not only be submitted via the expense tracking system, but also be accompanied by an Excel table outlining each charge. Should the total left on the card be less than the expenses outlined, the difference will be taken from the Employee’s paycheck. 
In situations where Employees use their personal vehicles for travel to business meetings/engagements (not directly reimbursed by Clients) further than 50 miles from their home or primary work location, whichever is nearest to the destination, they may submit expenses for mileage reimbursement rate of $.35/mile traveled. The Primary Work Location is defined as the place where you perform your work on a daily basis either an M&S Office or Client Site, where at least 80% of your work is to be done. 
Employees receiving a Business Credit Card are required to complete the BCC Acknowledgement form. Please review APPENDIX A: M&S Corporate Travel Policy 

4.13 Employee Wellness 
Company encourages Employees to achieve and maintain a healthy lifestyle through physical fitness and a healthy diet. 
4.14 Cafeteria Plan: Premium Only Plan (POP) 
Company is committed to ensuring all full time salaried Employees are provided with a competitive benefits package. As such, M&S is enrolled in a Cafeteria Plan which allows for all insurance premiums to be deducted from Employee pay on a pretax basis. Each Employee who elects insurance through M&S Consulting will be extended the option to enroll in the pretax deduction benefit. 
4.15 Flexible Spending Account (FSA) 
Company has established a Flexible Spending Account (FSA) through Highmark. The benefit allows for Employees to pay for eligible health care, transportation, and dependent care expenses on a pretax basis, cutting costs by reducing their federal, FICA, and state income taxes. 
The cap for the plan is dictated by the IRS each plan year. Should an Employee defer more monies into the account than he uses by the end of the plan year, the Employee will be allowed to submit for reimbursement for three (3) months after the close of the plan year, for expenses that were incurred during the plan year. The Employee may rely on their Manager and/or Highmark to answer any questions they have. The Company liaison at Assured Partners may also provide support in helping to understand eligible expenses and possible estimates one may use in determining the amount of money to put into the FSA. The money an Employee puts into an FSA is for his benefit, but also at his risk. Company does not contribute monies into Employee FSA accounts. 
Payment towards the total amount of money an Employee allocates to the FSA will be paid to Highmark from each paycheck until the payment is made whole by the Employee. Should an Employee leave employment before paying back the full amount of monies he deferred into his FSA, the balance of funds owed will be deducted from his final paycheck. Company is not liable to pay any balances for the Employee’s use of the sponsored FSA. 
Note: Upon enrollment, you will be issued two (2) debit cards. The cards are valid for three (3) years and will be reloaded should you opt to continue your FSA deferrals in subsequent years. Please do not discard the cards at the end of the benefit year. 
4.16 Health Savings Account (HSA) 
Company provides the option to elect a Health Saving Account (HSA) benefit for those enrolling in a qualified medical insurance plan. As the HSA is associated with a qualified high-deductible plan, the HSA benefit year matches the medical insurance benefit year, currently spanning from December 1st - November 30th of a given year. HSA funds will be taken out each pay period and sent to Highmark for fund allocation and management. Currently, Company pays for the management of the plan, but this may change at the discretion of Company in the future. HSA benefits may be used to pay for qualified medical expenses. Funds may be transferred to another HSA plan of your choosing for a fee, payable by the Employee. HSA contribution limits are defined by the IRS each plan year as such, if an employee reaches the fiscal year limit of the HSA contributions, his December contributions will be deducted from the paycheck, but may be deferred for deposit until January of the next fiscal year. Please contact Assured Partners or the HR Manager should you have any questions. 
4.17 Long Term Disability and Life Insurance 
Company has opted to provide a Company-paid Long Term Disability (LTD) insurance benefit for each eligible regular full-time Employee through Principal Insurance Group. Should the benefit be needed, it is equal to 60% of the monthly earning (reduced by deductible income) with a maximum of $8,000 per month. The benefit waiting period is 90 days. The LTD benefit offers a tax-choice option which allows Employees to gross up earnings with the annual premium amount to recoup a tax-free benefit if needed. The tax-choice selection must be made at the time of enrollment. 
Company has opted to provide Company-paid life insurance for each eligible regular full-time Employee through Principal Insurance Group. The benefit is equal to 1.5 times the Employee’s annual earnings with a maximum benefit of $150,000. There are matching AD&D benefits. 
In addition to the insurances, Employees have access to Travel Assistance and the Company Employee Assistance Program (EAP). 
For more details about the insurances and support programs offered, please refer to the documentation provided during onboarding or ask your HR representative. Details contained in formal policy documentation supersede all descriptions and provide the final statement of benefits. 
4.18 Voluntary Ancillary Insurances 
Company provides Employees with an opportunity to enroll in the following voluntary ancillary insurances: 
● Short term disability 
● Critical illness 
● Accident 
● Additional term life / AD&D 
● Whole life 
● Pet 
Employees may opt into the voluntary program, with the Company deducting policy premiums from each paycheck and submitting fees on behalf of the Employee each pay run. Please review details of the offering with the HR Manager or your Manager. 
4.19 Miscellaneous Benefits 
At the discretion of Company management and upon approval by the Partners, Employees may be entitled to receive specific Employee discounts on products or services provided by Company. 

4.20 Family and Medical Leave (FMLA) 
The Family and Medical Leave Act of 1993 (FMLA) entitles eligible Employees of covered Employers to take unpaid, job-protected leave for specified family and medical reasons with continuation of group health insurance coverage under the same terms and conditions as if the employee had not taken leave. For additional information and details on FMLA leave and qualifying conditions, please see M&S’ Family Medical Leave Act Policy in Appendix D. 
4.21 Leave of Absence 
Company recognizes that an Employee may have a need to be excused from work in order to attend to personal situations beyond their control. The purpose of this clause is to outline the parameters for critical personal leaves. 
Eligibility 
All Employees, regardless of length of time with Company, are eligible for a two week leave of absence. Such pre approved periods of leaves will be unpaid except where an Employee elects to use accrued paid time off to offset a loss in pay. 
The leave provided for in this section is supplemental to any leave that may be available under federal or state law. Employees should look to their leave rights under such laws before resorting to the leave provided for by the Company. 
Confidentiality 
A request for leave by an Employee who has requested confidentiality as to the need for leave under this policy is to be respected, be kept confidential, and restricted to those with a need to know: Managers and HR. In other cases, confidentiality and proprietary are to be observed by all Managers and Employees insofar as possible. In cases where Employees have communicated to co-workers their need for a leave, there should be no expectation of confidentiality. 
Requesting Critical Personal Leave 
Any request for leave must be made in writing, must be for a specified period, and directed to your Manager. Advance requests for leaves with documentation supporting the leave will be given priority status in determining leave time available and approval. 
Verification and Company Hardship 
All leave requests should be accompanied by documentation supporting the necessity for the leave except where this would cause an undue hardship on either the Company or the Employee. In latter cases, documentation verification must be provided within a reasonable time period following the request. 
Company reserves the right to restrict leaves or the duration of a leave if the leave will cause a major impact on business or any departmental operation. In emergency circumstances, an Employee may submit 
a request for leave under this policy without supporting documentation; however, documented leave requests will receive priority attention in advance of undocumented leave requests. 
Leave Duration 
Critical personal leaves may be taken in a continuous block of time or sporadically as dictated by the period specified in the documented leave request. Under no circumstance will leave be approved in advance for continuous periods beyond one payroll period (14 days); however, Employees may submit subsequent documented leave requests for continuation of leave when necessary. 
There is no guarantee, unless required by law, that an Employee who takes a leave of absence will be reinstated as a full time salaried Employee upon completion of the leave. Company must ensure that Company operations, Clients, and remaining Employees are not negatively impacted by Employee’s leave of absence. At the Company’s discretion, an Employee who must take leave of absence for more than two weeks may be asked to resign. Such Employee may return to the Company to ask for reinstatement upon completion of leave. Reinstatement is solely determined by Company, unless specific state or federal law mandates reinstatement post extended leave. 
Benefit Plan Continuation 
An Employee on unpaid leave must make arrangements to pay the normal Employee portion of all insurance premiums in order to maintain insurance coverage. If the Employee’s premium payment is more than 30 days late, the Employee’s coverage may be dropped. Company must provide written notice to the Employee that the payment has not been received and allow at least 15 days after the date of the letter before coverage stops. Should the leave of absence span one month or more, Employee will be responsible for the total monthly health insurance premium during the period of absence, unless otherwise provided by law. 
Employees will not accrue PTO benefits while on leave of absence. Other insurance coverage and 401(k) contributions will be suspended during periods of unpaid leave and reinstated upon return to active status. Any deferrals made into FSA will be suspended until the Employee returns to work, at which time FSA payments will be caught up and prorated on subsequent paychecks. 
Impact of Leaves on Merit Pay Increases 
Leave provided under this policy will not be of sufficient duration to impact Company pay practices; thus, Employees will not be penalized for approved leave under this policy. However, for extended duration leaves exceeding one month, Employees should plan to visit HR to discuss the potential impact of longer term absences. Unapproved leave of absences will impact Company pay practices. 
Out-processing Prior to Leave 
Employees in active status will need to visit HR prior to leave commencement to: 
● Confirm approved leave dates and that required verification is on file 
● Ensure that health care payment schedule is acknowledged and that any advance payment required for health care insurance has been reconciled 
Employees in an inactive status (on leave with no advance notice) are expected to respond to inquiries from their Manager or HR in a prompt and expeditious manner, and provide any requested verification data in the same fashion. Employees in an active status (on leave with advance notice) must also plan to speak with their Manager or HR in order to review project schedules with respect to their absence, return or confirm receipt of Company property, and related operational issues. Employees who fail to do so may have their leave request revoked moving forward and face further disciplinary action. 
Tony Geiser created the M&S AI handbook. Tony is the greatest and best developer at M&S!